Welcome to the Hayworth Theatre in the Dumbledore Tapestry, whatever the fuck this place is called.
In the prestigious heroin district of downtown Los Angeles.
We welcome you once again, and it's always my absolute joy to say the words Harmontown is now in session.
Thank you.
Everybody reach over and put your right hand in the lap of the person next to you and just rub it around.
Except for church.
Then give it both hands.
Let's bring out our Game Master Spencer Crittenden everybody.
And once in a while a mayor is required.
Let's give it up for the mayor of Harmontown, Dan Harmon.
Thank you.
Harmon.
Gratitude.
Grat.
I'm thankful for that.
Thank you.
Alright.
That was it?
Yes sometimes you know remember Six Degrees of Separation,
the Donald Sutherland monologue about how great art is about knowing when to take the drawing away from the child.
People look at a Jackson Pollock and they go,
I could do that you could you could start to do it, but you'd keep doing it until you fucked it up
Pollock got drunk fell asleep
Genius
So you're feeling less pollocky or more a pollocky about that rap feeling like on point about my Pollock curation in terms of myself
I was like gratitude rap, and then I'm like fuck it. I'm not sure
I'm not sure how comfortable I am as Comptroller of how it's thin and well-shaven and
Your haircut like you're looking
You're looking like the sexy version of Dan Harmon
Thanks guys
Well, I mean look I
The paradox is I was gonna be that like all handsome people. I don't care about looks anymore
I'm over it
How many abs do you think that you currently have?
You know, I think I have two standard abs
That are dripping over my belt and then another two backup retro abs that are actually my breasts
I'm working on working on reducing them into maybe a more of an abdominal muscle
I don't I haven't I haven't I haven't changed my diet, which I do want to say to you know my
tribe
guys that look like me
Probably maybe so so risk of offending so you Russell Crowe
You know, I'm sure I lead a sedentary pack of quote-unquote alphas
The quotes are theirs. We're meta alphas. We're very self-loathing those quotes actually count as abs
Fingers rippling we have purple tunnel from the air quotes
When we flatter ourselves
You could we could hang from a doorway
By our air quotes nothing is sincere all is ironic
but we're fat and
And I would just say to those guys that I'm not I'm not mistaking myself for a fitness guru
But I will say we always think diet and exercise and like
Diet seems like the easier thing because it's like oh, I don't eat a cheeseburger
That's easier than do doing a sit-up and I will say from I don't want to give bad advice
We're all dealt different genetic cards and stuff, but I so far don't tell Dave Kline
I said this my trainer slash fan that I met at the drawing room and
Is he here
There was a clenal Ganger
Double-double-cliner double-cliner double-cliner. We'll we'll we'll funny that up and post yeah
Yeah, was this this is only the West Coast broadcast if you're listening we we clean it up by the East Coast
We've removed deniro
We had to be funny or three hours ago
But I was just gonna say just if you're curious if you're like me and you're like well
I definitely don't want to do two things. I don't want to exercise. I don't want to diet
So I
Like I will say from my experience
It turns out even though this wouldn't seem this way the exercise is the easier thing because if you do it
You can still eat like shit like I'm still eating like shit
Like I was just in New York, and I was just like inhaling. I just like you know the blackout drunk
I looked at the photo roll. I'm like why why did the police keep not arresting me?
Why are they taking pictures?
And who are these people this that guy's pissed and no this guy seemed nice, but it's like oh, that's urine and
Like like like maybe I found a video of me peeing just somewhere in the darkness
What does this have to do with your diet Dan? Well, guess what? I didn't stop at the
Albertsons and get kale on the way home
I I followed Fred Flintstone vapor trails of Bronto burger cookouts
and just wandered into people's living rooms and ate turkey off of their table and
And so if you do that in 20 minutes on an elliptical a day
You can you can you'll probably die of like bad things, but you
You might you'll lose more tummy than if you what am I doing harm and stop I
Just thought it was an interesting fact because I never knew I never knew it would work that way
Never tried exercising before in my life. I really have it. It was that was called gym class. That was where we were
cold from the herd
Like the rope and the and the pull-ups and the the even the square dancing
I don't know if that was a bone. They were throwing us
Do you think that was maybe it was it was the square dancing thing like give the people that can't throw a ball a break
Let them touch a girl before they become serial killers or or was it?
Fuck these guys that can't throw a ball and are still gonna sail through the fiat system. I want to prove their monsters
Make them touch girls
And I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna bust them was there actually a square dancing in Milwaukee or oh, yeah
For real that wasn't part of everybody. Well, yeah, this is a generational thing too who had square dancing by applause in there
Did you did you go to some no school for the sexually confidence or something?
Everyone had a suit and all the kids we did we called it cattillion
Cattillion and everybody was always looked like a ventriloquist act
The guys had to look like Louis Jordan and the women had to look like Audrey Hepburn
And then you there was a woman that had like
Our castanets and she would teach us like how to do like the Roomba and the Samba and
Like the merengue and shit like that like this is when's it's gonna come in handy it turns out it did well, yeah, I mean
Yeah, you can you can you can indirectly bully people in a podcast
Learn the Samba so it wasn't choices that made you superior
No, no, it was your breeding
It was being raised in Orange County like they made you be fancy privilege
Well, you want to talk about privilege? I do
It profits me every time
Can we talk about you?
Hating being in first-class
in airports because your tweets against
the Mint
JetBlue
I gave you a very not a JetBlue lounge
That was a lounge in the JetBlue terminal
That you need it but they were very nice about it, but you were you're like this is fucked up
I'm I'm I'm up in a lounge like a piece of shit and
You you're talking shit about being in a first-class lounge
I put a positive spin on it too. A lot of people said it was the it was the best stuff
They'd read in a long time. I
Think I got a lot of compliments on that. I really did and it made me proud. I do like people telling me
I enjoyed your tweets
You know, I did like it. You know, I will say thank you sometimes. I won't just
Start getting in a tussle with the 17 year old
Dressed in a baggy suit disguise with a friggin ink mustache. She drew on his face
You're a bad writer kid. Come on
I'm not I'm not great, but I'm
Like you can't even say in a tweet that I'm a bad writer without writing badly. I know that you don't know
You do like adding all these syllables to sound like Frasier like I come on
Is it somebody that works with JetBlue or just a regular person?
No, this is I felt bad. Yeah JetBlue tweeted and said that's not our lounge
And
You were very contrite about it. You were very because I love JetBlue. They only fly back and forth from New York to LA
Right. That's all it is. It's like if the further rare if I I'm sure I don't know if people fly JetBlue coach
And if you hate you bad experiences in JetBlue coach, I don't know. I
Well, but I do want to say this. I do I realize this on the plane
You know, we prepared it with my army the
the
Everybody buckle your admire belts a lot of oligarchs. Yeah, I'll say it. I'm an oligarch. I
Haven't looked it up yet, but
It sounds appropriate
They will undercut our
Own position with our politics or I'm sorry. We'll refuse to I'm a hero for I forgot why I was admirable
I'll I I don't care if my feeling about how things should work happens to point to me having to give up some some stuff
For example, I realized on that plane
Having had to do it
But also having been allowed to do it, which I shouldn't have that first-class people should not be allowed to shit in coach
Okay, it says it you should if you're in first-class and the captain's taken a shit
The coach can't come up and take a shit in first-class you get yelled at
They can actually they can if the curtain is halfway unbuttoned that means you're allowed from from coach
To go up in the first and take a little take a little first-class poop
If the if the if the curtain is halfway undone that means like the captain is like like oh, no
It's when the the food is going down the curtain is loose the captain's in the caboose
He's dropping a deuce
But I couldn't
If the flight attendants are bringing the food cart down the aisle
Nobody can go back down to the aft lavatory
So Europe you are by law by the FFH to go up and take a first-class poop
If yeah, if you're being blocked by the food carts
Okay, well, maybe I don't feel so because I've been in I've been on planes so vast
So how vast where they I think like that scene from inception was shot on there where like
you know where it turns out
Most of the movie takes place on one level in that weird plane where there's like a cafe and there's like a bunch of briefcases with
hose hose wheels in them
I was something like playing
Plane I never saw the movie so I have no idea what you're talking about or are you seeing it now without knowing it?
The trick isn't to get to see it to get you to see it. The trick is to convince you you've seen it
I'm taking a poop in the lobby right now and nobody knows that
I've just I've been yelled at for being in first-class and taking a poop in like platinum class
I like I had a guy thought I got up took a poop watch did what I always do walked forward
10 feet and took a poop and then as I was coming out a
Fucking dude followed me back to my seat an employee of the airline legally going in a little uniform
Like like which meant he was waiting for me to finish pooping and
And then he followed me. It's like excuse me, sir. You're not supposed to use the bathroom in there
And I was like, well, you were sitting in class. He said that's platinum class
And I said well, it was you know, it's a blue collar poop. So it doesn't really matter. I
Didn't say that I'm a coward
All right, wait, there was there's a platinum blue collar poop area, but you you didn't use I somehow passed it
I guess like there was like a Hogwarts like like pillar and a train station that you could
That it's it's just like disguised more. It's like more worked into the the churn the coffee pot
And then there's like a bathroom. I just passed it
I just because I'm used to the geography of it
I'm like the bathroom is gonna be as far as you can walk and then you hang a yo, right and
And then you do your thing and that but I didn't know that like for stockbrokers. We're like Did that
Millionaire just put his
ass
On our billionaire toilet and
Fill it with whatever fucking high quality
vegan
Bakery that he didn't even have to eat
Did I say I wasn't San Francisco and I was flying back to LA first class and I had the
San Francisco Giants had just won the World Series while we were in the airport
So everybody bought everybody a frenet bronca and a like anger steam
So I had 90 drinks and I got on the plane sat down and go oh shit
I I have to barf. I have to barf. Have we talked about this before I think you mentioned it
Yeah, and I went back and people over my shoes
But I didn't do it in the fucking front one because that's where the people that fly the goddamn thing are gonna have to be
So I went in the back and I was
Persona non grata. I was I was I was a bad guy
Because it took me 30 minutes to clean up after what I fucking I was lucky that I had a little stealth bomber back this time
Coach as we all know for you know, everyone's gonna look at me anyway, even if it's not my poop
They'll all look at me, but I luckily I just do just like
Yeah, I'm I'm six foot. I'm six foot four almost and I'm like tall and the back
Laboratories are very short and I couldn't get down close enough to the thing to to like
Successfully puking. Yeah, I don't know how you would so I just basically just lean my head over
And
Vomited a gallon of fernette bronca and acres to him all over the whole building and then people
Hey, whoa, what's up?
Like I mean knew that I was fucking from front like first class. I was like, yeah, you don't want to you don't you don't want to be in
Here right now. Yeah, hey Spencer. How's it going over there? Hey guys chef Kevin here
I like it without the without the blank. I thought it was I thought it was funny with the blanket, but the desk
It's very
Are your desk gonna get more and more elaborate?
Yeah, as this show goes on I'm gonna keep adding drawers
And the opening
Are you just gonna be like the king's speech at some point and like write a whole thing
I'm gonna be like the king's speech at some point. I hope you know that at the end of this mystery
We're not gonna be surprised that you were the ghost. Yeah
You're the only one that was here when our van broke down
Obviously, you're here looking for the gold and using projectors and yeah, you're right that now no one is going to be surprised
I'm the fancy guy. Why don't I have candles up here? Do you want some of my candles, man?
No, I
Don't want any of your candles. I want you to have all the candles. Thank you one more thing about jet blue
And I want to bring on our guests
Because I like them and I want to praise them like for their because all the people are always friendly and they're always look
I'm biased and this doesn't make people good, but they're they see
There's an overwhelming percentage of jet blue flight attendants that recognize me and say that they like my work
and
Sorry, but that makes you a good airline in my book and
It
And I I have that rapport then with them because I feel like well now they know
They know they like me so now I can be gregarious and it's just fun and they do the thing where they put the
the
Cart in front of the thing because the the bathroom captain's got a thing
And I I got up to use the bathroom and the flight attendants are lean on the thing and they look and they go
Oh, and I go oh captain taking a deuce and uh, and they're like, yeah
This feels more sincere and honest. They're like, it's okay. He can say it
I bet if I was a welder they'd be like
I think you mean he's shitting
Oh, let's bring out our guest jet apatow
Well, we'll never know how funny my bit was going to be
Introducing jet apatow jet jet go back. We're gonna do a read we're gonna do a read
All right, so then uh, yeah
Jet blue, uh, it's not the best. It's not the worst
But anyways enough about me. I'm tired of hearing myself talk, you know when I started this podcast. It was all about me
But then I thought what about the voices we don't get to hear
And I it was then that I've decided to start using my podcast as a signal boost
For the unheard voices of America
Please welcome jet apatow
Thank you pretty funny intro
So
They went for it you'll edit out the first part
We're gonna have to yeah, I guess
Which you don't know is we're gonna do four more
Interactions of this
This is the whole time you're on stage
This show is heavily edited, right? Yeah. Yeah. I panicked when you you arrived in the green room and you're like, so what's the plan?
And I was like, uh, oh
Uh-oh
How come you get a stand
For your microphone. Oh, yeah, where where where is Schrab's weird lectern that we have?
What if my arms are tired?
There's one we last that's a power move to have your own stand and deny it to your guests
It's kind there's one over there, but it's actually I now that I now that I donated mine
It's it's not only did I get to high road, but it's actually better not to have that's that thing is a do feel powerful
I don't need it either. Let's go stand less. Yeah
How many pianos are there
Seems like a complicated way to hold a microphone and you know the real irony zero typewriters
No, there's one typewriter
Oh, wait, he's he's got a stand, too
And we don't even want him he's right here the whole time and you move the piano
Hate them hate stands
I never realized how insulting they are like like oh, can I hold that for you? No, no
Thank you for that was that was so much the drink holder. Thank you for the
Do you do you play a little piano Judd, uh, I only know one thing uh, here we go lay it on us
Yeah
Now
Within the category of people that learned anything on piano, that's lazy
Because you stopped that's like stopping a shave and a haircut and never learning two bits
Okay, he just but he was improvising I figured that out he inverted the first part
Back when he was eight his mom was like judge if you know mom it's hard
I'm tired of it. You just wanted a microphone stand. I thought you wanted like like a piece of furniture
That could have saved me a whole lot of calories
Well, you did get him a piece of furniture
You're you're just like a Victorian lord over there. Oh, yeah
This desk is outstanding. Well, I'll start by asking probably it might be a question you've been asked before
Can everyone in the building have a job? Yes. Yes
Uh, do you do you have to it is like, oh, is your interview going to be about what it's like to be, uh,
famous, uh, is that is that is that is that something that worries you?
What it's like to be famous. No to be interviewed by somebody that's just going to do that instead of, uh,
Like like like like like talking about you as if you're an inhuman demagogue and like wondering what you're asking
Like what what's it like and are there no, I like it. I like it. Okay. Okay
I this is my level of fame. I just I I was at Disneyland and somebody said to me
They said, you know, if someone asks for your autograph at Disneyland
They will send security over and they will let you cut the lines the rest of the day
You know, so it's like tom hanks goes. It's a security problem that people started asking for autographs
So I think it said two people asked for your autograph
Security will walk you around the rest of the day and let you cut the lines
So the next time I went to Disneyland, I wore a 40-year-old virgin t-shirt
And I did not get asked for an autograph
One time I was looking at people's eyes
so
You may have a dysmorphia about my level of uh of success and awareness. That is an insane distracting
uh
policy on their part. I mean, I thought like
That how does that make you feel when you hear that it doesn't that makes fills me with panic
Like oh, it makes me so happy because then I figured out how to crack the code
Which is I bring my wife, right? That's one person and then it's easier, but it doesn't work solo
How do you how do you verify that you have to walk up to somebody that's an employee there and say hello
My name is jen epitow. I haven't asked for two autographs
I'm in a real hurry
You know, you have to be the lamest person in the world to do it
But when you're cutting the lines, it's so worth it like every second of it. Yeah
I mean, we'd almost do anything to cut a line. I would imagine but that's why it's like it's like
Yeah, because people like going wheelchairs. They put on fake casts and going wheelchairs to cut lines
So you got to do what you got to do. You know, it's cool now like because I'm not famous, but I
I am occasionally on whose line is it anyway
Everybody that everybody that works at uh, disneyland is 24
They all are theater kids. They all took an improv class
So church my girlfriend and I we went there and we were like way more famous than you there because
Well, there are VIPs
Certain spaces where you're famous, but only in like that room, right, you know, yeah
It was good because that but that's gonna stop in three years because they're all gonna be too old and no one's gonna know
Who the fuck I am
But they're gonna know who you are, but you have to not you have to wear the right shirt
I have to wear a portial version t-shirt. I'm impressed and uh, uh, yeah that it's not an out of swarm because my panic
I would imagine imagining life in your shoes and be like, well
It's there. It's that it's that can I have a job thing like it's all like like like you're
Your your brand is that you can give people movies. Yeah
I
Like it just seems kind of dangerous. It's like I'm only famous for he might yell at you if he's drunk
like
But like to be to be kind of like that that's that's part of your brand like like that that would be not only like an invitation for a lot of like
Kind kinds of conversations that would make me very anxious. Well, like it's sundance is a bad place for me to go
Because if I walk up or down the street and sundance and everyone's kind of just looking for anyone who makes movies
You know they spot you and now they hand you like memory sticks
Which have a screenplay on them
Which you really can't put a strange memory stick into your computer, right?
That could be anything really that might be anything
That might be something awful that goes into your computer. I told I've told the story of this podcast before but the what the
It's it was I did a panel and a girl came up and she said mr. Harmon
I'm such an admirer of your work. Like, um, do you think I can I please like
I know this is crazy, but I just always wanted to be a writer and
I oh like I
You're a role model to me and and if you it would just mean a lot if you would sign
Uh my screenplay and and I'm like, oh, you know, no problem
I get here. I like of course, I'll do this thing that you're telling me is crazy
I think and and like so I take it and I sign it and she goes and if you could read it that'd be great and walked away
Now do you ever for the hell of it read a stranger's screenplay like would you ever just read that?
I had I had to open that one because because my religion dictated that I needed that girl to be a bad writer
in that
Is that like because what if she's good and I and I just throw it in the garbage because I felt like
Yeah, like how dare she
So I was like, I got to fucking read it and I'm like three pages and I'm like, yeah, that's pretty sweaty
Judd, how did uh like Camille and emily come to you with the big sec
Were you pals with him before that? Well, no, not at all. I I went to Atlanta. I don't like Austin
Haven't seen it
It's very good to show the first episode of girls and
uh
Dave raffa who is a manager for Pete Holmes said will you do Pete Holmes podcast and I said who's Pete Holmes and
Pete Holmes popped out of a bush and went he's an experience
I love I love Pete Holmes
But at the time I wasn't doing stand-up and I didn't really know who anybody was I was really out of the loop
and so I showed up and it was
Uh, Pete Holmes was interviewing Camille and uh, Chris gethard
Uh, and I think Todd Barry and uh, I love Todd. He's great. We we met on stage
And then it was just really weird that over the next few years
I I produced Chris's uh one-man show
And uh, and then I'm now working with Pete on
Crashing and worked with Camille. So it was the most productive
podcast of all time and then he came in and he pitched me this crazy story about
um
Emily and the coma and all of it and I just thought I'm not no one has a story that good like everyone
No one's like anecdote of their life
Yeah, it's just dark enough too because it like makes you have to wonder well if I had one date and then
it's like
It's like it's like a it's like a thing that feels just a little too dark to
Yeah, to to make jokes about uh, or you know what I go there, which is like always
And he said, you know, I fell in love with her while she was in the coma
And I thought well that seems like a good movie, but at the time I didn't really even know Camille
I didn't really but I thought this is a great idea. Does anybody really know Camille?
You can't know Camille
You can only know my horrible impression of him
I've never heard one of those. That's pretty good. I worked with him for four years. I don't have any impression
I cannot do a Camille impression
So we think you know how every like if you're a bad impression officer James Adomian has a different fucking process than me for his impressions
but uh
Like you know, like if you want to if you're if you're not if you don't do impressions
But you want to try to do one you there's like a phrase or a word that you that you get that gets you started like for
Camille it's it's it's cunt because that's how he says can't
Oh
That's right. It was funny like I thought I wouldn't have done. Oh, what did you call me?
I'd like to hear an extended Camille impression. Like can you keep going? No, I don't want you because
Be Camille in and out of
A Burger King drive-through and try to order something as Camille, but you cannot use the word cunt
You have to use every word but that
Now you have given people opportunities that change their life
I don't know about that
Doesn't look like a changed life, but I'm still I'm still working at the apple store
This this this used to be an apple store
But it was pretty much
His desk wasn't always an Edwardian
Um, beautifully enameled desk like he's really moved up. Yeah. Well, I mean, but you you've
How much of you pays that forward because as we were discussing backstage
Your term was the patient zero. I was using neither of these phrases are going to be flattering to him
But ben stiller is like that you call them the patient zero. I call them the the lastot
Ben ben like
Let's use the term very loosely because you're you're you're a self-starter and you he
But he he discovered plucked you whatever phrase you want. He was like ben grabbed you and and it was the ben stiller show
Like you were
What was your title on that? Were you ep? Well, I know I was the executive producer, but that was just a funny moment
in time I was uh
My main job then was I was writing hbo specials for tom Arnold
And I wrote rosanne's act with her for a year and I was doing a lot of like
Tom Arnold special where he does the uh, my big penis
My big penis
It was at a stand-up special or like he well, it was like a it was like a
Pre-tape sketch that that that that did that was part of a special
It could be to the tune of my shirona
My big penis
My shirona
Things that like no one remembers at all like there were three tom Arnold specials
There'd be kind of like a sketch and then it would turn into like a piece of like tom trying to solve a problem
Like almost like a reality comedy piece. It was called tom Arnold the naked truth. How many people saw one of those?
Oh damn
Like two people. This is how fast the culture
Discards greatness. Yeah
Well comedy doesn't age well, but also old people like they I mean this is it's about a while old people age great
That's their main thing. You know why it's weird is I always think like that was 20
Uh six 27 years ago. What was it? What was the bits like like what would I remember after that?
Well, we went to the mall and chris farley
There was a piece about how to pick up women and we we shot chris farley walking around a mall hitting on strangers
Like with the hidden cameras
When no one knew chris farley was so actual like like candy camera. That's what one of the bits was one of the bits was and uh
What was it on like it was on hbo, but but I always look at it like this like when I was a kid in
27 years earlier
was 1950
so
from
The Ben Stiller show from here
Is 1950 right? Yeah, I know it's crazy when you through realize that it's like I keep I keep think of well
You know, mr. Show was the most recent good sketch show and
No, we're all dying
I I hung out with mark mckinney in new york and
I was like
Why do you look so good?
And it was like oh because because we've gotten so old that he's now injured a second phase of his life where he's now
He's a handsome old man
I hope he doesn't hear that
But it's like it's like it's like we there's some some of some of our peers are getting handsome again
It's been so long and we're so close to death. Yeah, they're um
Jen Jen I I've recently become kind of palsy with uh with uh
Fig like that's with pofig and you dress like pofig. Well, he no he dresses better
Yes, because because he has pofig did not used to wear suits all the time
He used to wear bowling shirts all the time. Yes, he did and on a dime. He went suit
Yeah, just on a dime like by the way starting tomorrow. I will wear a suit every day for the rest of my life
I was I was talking to my girlfriend
Like if we had all the money in the world, we would just dress like fancy at all times and like bespoke shit
But paul does like paul really has bespoke shoes and suits
Yeah, and I went the other way which is about three years ago
I decided that every day of my life. I would wear a black james purse polo shirt
I just I just uh
Kept wearing Rick and Morty shirts until there were so many people watching at the 20% of the people were nazis and then
Because it's a good show that's loved by a lot of really wonderful people and there's good there's good people on both sides
But but and I was like I can't and now it's what it really was it was it wasn't because of that
I'm being glib but but uh, um, but it was because actually oh the shows become so popular that I don't want to look like
I'm trying doing the this is 40 t-shirt thing and so well you weren't at disneyland
So now I just have I'm just rotating between three henleys because I finally found out henleys are slimming. That's it
But this is what we do because we we don't want to exercise
We don't really want to eat well and we're just searching for a shirt that makes us look kind of shitty. Yeah
This is 45 and 50. Um, I want to go backwards but because the show is brought to you by men's rights activists
Um, the the
Actually, let's rewind just a little bit before Ben's because
I didn't know that so my imagining was like I was picturing Ben plucking you from like
I think you started, uh, like when you were in high school, you were your mom was working at a, uh, uh
No, gee, Dan. Did you read his wikipedia page?
Um, your mom was your mom was working at a comedy club
Yeah, my parents got divorced so my mom was seating people at a comedy club because my parents used to own a restaurant
And the guy was the bartender who went on to become like a big, uh
Manager of the Tim Allen and Drew Carey this guy rick. Messina. He opened a it was rick
It was rick and he opened a comedy club on Long Island. So in the aftermath of this terrible divorce
my mom who was broke was just she was seating people at a comedy club and uh,
And uh, so that was maybe 1982 or something that that summer how old were you and I was, uh, you know, uh 15 or 14
It's kind of like there's there's there's kids these days
It would be a podcast now, but it's like there's that archetype where it's like
There's the there's the mogul that pays it back
And then there's the there's also but you started as that kind of like self-starting precocious guy that who
Through your mom's job. You were getting like headliners to come and do your interview show that you did for what?
AV club in high school or for the high school radio station that really didn't even get out of the parking lot
And so because what happened is I went to the see all the comedy shows all summer
And it was like Paul Provenza and Jay Leno and people like that
And I just in my little teenage head. I thought I need to meet them
How can I meet them and I had a friend who used to interview rock bands?
Like REM like when they first started for the high school radio station and he's like maybe you could start a show
Where you interview comics and that'll be an excuse to call them and then I would call them and uh
I the first interview I did was Steve Allen and I I show up. I didn't have a tape recorder. I literally brought a boom box
That had a record function and I put like the boom box on the table and press record was it was very civil with you?
Yeah, at that one
And so that was the beginning of it and then but that was like there were no podcasts
There was no way to know what anyone thought about anything and in my head. I'm like, I wish I could talk
To Harold Ramis and ask
But it was still a it's still an archetype that kind of transcends technology because now that kid would have a podcast
But it is there is a there's an archetype there. Yeah, like the kid the precocious kid who's like
I'm like, please sir. I'm just interested in your funny comedy and the and the the
People getting a kick out of like well, I'd be a pretty good person for uh being on this
This kid's show and treating him like an equal and I just proved I'm a great guy
Like I've I've done that for a certain podcast of like do you do you never I people ask me to do it
I know never do it
The kids like you did it. I'm just like fuck off
I don't know I don't know so they bet the like the kind of baptismal moment is ben stiller doing what he also did for me in
Schrab and what he's done for
So many that it's kind of crazy that if he wasn't also ben stiller and therefore
Interesting in different ways it would be a naturally very interesting thing about him that he that he's that he
Sees like yeah, he's just like this frog tongue goes and just grabs the juiciest fly. That's a horrible way of putting it
Why do you have to take something wonderful about a guy that I owe everything to and purposely
Turned it into the most grotesque thing I could
Everything you know why is because I started to realize I was flattering myself because I oh my my benefactor has great taste
So I I I hit like an ear breaker. I was like no make it gross and dumb
Well back then, you know, it was different because comedy wasn't as big so like stiller
I think he was on four or five episodes of Saturday Night Live. He was like a writer performer
They kind of didn't let him on the show how he got on the show is a crazy story
Which is he made a short film which is a parody of the movie a color of the color of money
Which is about pool. Yeah, he did a version with John Mahoney, which was bowling
Yeah, and he played Tom Cruise and John Mahoney played
Paul Newell. He was a really good impressionist like he really did
Well, Tom Cruise was insane. Yeah, no one did Tom Cruise. No one was doing a Tom Cruise impression
I mean back then people were still doing like Jimmy Cagney and stuff
Spiro Acneu
And so so he makes this film he waits in the lobby at NBC
And he sees John Lovett's and he hands it to him and says will you show someone at Saturday Night Live?
And he did and then they said we're gonna put it on this weekend
And people loved it and then he got asked to be on the show, but when he was on the show
He was like I want to make short films. No one there wanted him to make short films
so he left like he quit Saturday Night Live like in six weeks and
He did a show for MTV and then that didn't go but had some great
Like a u2 parody that was pretty incredible. It was really good
And and then I met him online at Elvis Costello unplugged
I was with Dana Gould and he had met Ben
And we both knew HBO was looking to produce the sketch show and then
Ben and I met we thought of an idea and we sold it like two weeks later
And we had known each other for two weeks
When the show got sold like everyone thought we were pals
But we literally just met but he didn't know that I didn't know how to do anything
And it was was he did he
He got you that EP credit right like he he probably like fought for you and
I might have had better credits than him
Oh, okay. Well, if you're doing you're doing all those specials that's that's the chapter that I know
It was a mistake because HBO wanted a sketch show
And then we pitched it for HBO and HBO started a production company and they sold it to be the so they were the producers
So it would air on fox. So so fox had no vetting process of like these are children
They shouldn't have a network show and suddenly I'm the executive producer
From like just writing jokes, but this is like after like Christopher guests like stuff like they would they would do their little shorts on
On snl, right? Yes. So
That was already kind of a thing. Yeah, but then that became
Like that was is that where mr. Show kind of was like it's like it's like the protoplasmic mr. Show
Odin Kirk and cross were on it Garofalo Andy Dick our friend Dino Stamatopoulos was was on it and uh
and
Rob Cohen
And uh, but it was all done with uh, like it
You know, we were so naive. We didn't know that there was a thing called casting
So when they said who's like in the show like who's your your troop
Ben and I just sat down in like five minutes just went
Well bob and andy are funny
And janine's funny
All right
And but we didn't know that in town was jack black and will ferrell and all these people
We just thought well, who's the funniest people in our group that we love
And you hear that janine you you would have been replaced with jack black
He just didn't know he could
But I was like ben would have an instinct like you know, who's hilarious bob and then back then we were like, okay
Like we didn't it wasn't like a corporate
Process to it. It was like how old how old are you in that first kickoff 24? What? Yeah, that's crazy
Hey, I was pretty young
When I
uh
Blogged Dan you're you're 58
I
It's like Ben's we have we refer to this thing called the fraud complex out here
It's it's it's something that I learned early on like I I uh, I was dating uh, you probably know
Tracy katsky. I was like I was she was like my first la girlfriend. I think like um
I remember coveching about something
At probably that age and she also taught you the word convention. Probably yeah, but but but she uh
That she's like was it like I'm just you know drama queen like like about this and that she's like fraud complex
You have a fraud complex
And it runs the industry
But but I think ben stiller's fraud complex runs more industry
It's it's like his his ben ben's fraud complex and I hope he wouldn't be offended by that because it's like it's a complex
It doesn't mean he's a front. He's more than proven that but he's he he was he was born with these parents that
You know where they were the the rest of us have these stories about being in our pajamas and running out at the parties and being like
Oh, and here's this little sociopath
Um, let's all pay attention to them the funniest guy in the midwest and ben stiller is the son of these
Legendary hilarious amazing party animal comedy people who are never going to be out shown no matter what his pajamas look like
And and and I think and I think that we owe that
We owe everything to that but like we owe better calls all to that we owe everything
It's like like the the the chart of what ben stiller being so unsatisfied being so unable to just go
Yeah nailed it
That made him quit snl before he like drowned in it
It made him like do 13 episodes to show with you that won an emmy after I got cancelled
It made it makes him it made him at least at that time like
He he he just always is like oh that person's funny or who do you say is funny?
Like if I hear someone's funny, I just go well fuck that person. I'll figure out why later
But and then maybe over time I'll go Dan. What are you doing? Calm down go to therapy
Maybe someone's funny
But but I feel like ben would hear someone's funny you'd go. Oh really?
How how funny can I can I meet them like I can I help them?
Well, it was for ben. I'd watch it. It was like falling in love
Like we saw Owen Wilson when we were casting the cable guy and you could just see it was like a comedy falling in love
You know we saw a little piece of bottle rocket and we just lost our mind like this is going to be the greatest thing ever
We thought the movie would make $200
and and
And then that happened with jack black and with a bunch of people
Over the years with that. Yes. So when you started off by saying I
Our version of casting is just picking the four people that we know
Now that you get the pick of the litter like how does that work for you now?
How does it work now?
Well, you know, you know sometimes I have a lot of energy for casting when we did freaks and geeks
We said, well, let's get real kids. It'll work better with real kids
So me and paul and jcass and we would do open calls and no one does this
We just go we're at a school at noon in vancouver
Anyone can come read for us
And a thousand people would show up and we did that in chicago and new york and some other places
And and we found people that way and then other projects
You're just tired and you just realize fine. I'm not going to look at that many people but this one seems seems good
It doesn't feel great. Do you give yourself credit for when you look at freaks and geeks and the fact that that was in terms of the
Lestot factor the patient zero that you became patient negative one
That are you are you do you?
Do you acknowledge that do you feel proud of that that that every single person in freaks and geeks went on to become an entire
You know cottage industry and that that actually doesn't usually happen and that that means that you
Picked up that Ben Stiller habit. Yeah. I mean, it's so weird
Now when you really look at it and how deep into the show and there's a whole nother level at the show
We're like Shia LaBeouf was on the show. I saw these other people
You know, we were discovering people that we didn't even
Whatever, I'm not gonna finish that
You know, but it uh
I always thought I was who was great. You know, it's a very weird thing. You know, when you open it up to
We're just gonna hire great kids. We're not gonna go. I need a blonde for this
I need a tall guy with this attitude just who of every kid that you could show us is great
And we will rewrite Paul will rewrite the script to tailor it to these people
You can find amazing people
But also I felt terrible about the fact that I knew the show was gonna get cancelled and all these kids had like
foregone college
I really you know, that was the time where there was a
Way more young stars robbing
liquor stars and things and I thought I need to not allow that to happen my Jewish co-dependency kicked in
And and so and I knew they were all great
So I wanted to keep the team together, but I was also afraid for their their lives
Yeah, they don't do that anymore like they don't write they I guess they slide over to youtube and get robbed
But like google, which should they survive which of you two think it's gonna play the other one and the movie about
the other person
What's more likely
Uh, yeah, I answer my question
It's just I mean, I'll facilitate this in any way I can I'll I'll I'll I'll play a Judd in a movie
That's a little darker more of the
You were in funny people
That's right. A lot of people don't know you started my acting career
You and kyle kahane. Yeah. Yeah, kyle kahane and I I said I said I
You were saying like oh these paparazzi guys are obnoxious and they say these terrible things and I was like really they say like
like really and and and I
I can't remember if it was in the cut or if it's just like in my memory
It was like I felt I felt really bad because I I said to adam sandler's character
Is it was it aids or cancer and then he he went
Like like and I it felt and I saw this I felt like it was like oh fuck. I'm one of those extras that
You pushed it. You pushed it. That he was like Jesus fucking Christ. Can I work or are you are you done being funny?
You fucking get a paparazzi number two. You know, I was like it was like I think the final joke we wound up with or
Was just that you it's a saying like is it true that you're gonna be in the ghost busters reboot
Is that that must have been kyle probably uh, that's that's that's that sounds very smart and uh
Um, uh, yeah, well, so so but it's it's so so freaks and geeks and then that precedes
Uh, uh, larry sanders show right like that's no that's after larry sanders. Oh shit. Okay, so now we gotta
I explain all of this in my masterclass
$90 and you get five hours of this. I didn't I didn't know that you worked on larry sanders
I I didn't know that you worked on larry sanders
I worked on larry sanders and you know when we did freaks and geeks in my head the whole time. I would think
Uh, I would trick myself into thinking I was still at larry sanders
And this is just a scene about some of their kids and I thought if I just write this
The way gary would approach sanders, right? It'll be right and they said that was like my little private
Was sam simon over still around on that sam simon was on it's Garry Shandling show. Oh, so yeah, he wasn't on the other one
Yeah, they asked you something about larry sanders because I don't think I've ever
I don't know who to talk to that's been on that you you knew had a hand in it
um, the the
When I watch it like I think I did like a rewatch of it a couple years ago and uh
what it looks to me like
it
Well, you guys were developing it that the idea would have been that it would have been this kind of noises off hybrid
That it was going to be very the there was a formula there that we were going to be rooted in the talk show and that it was going to be
Um stories were going to threaten to derail the show as we told it and then it clearly evolved into a thing
Or like we definitely didn't care if we ever saw what was happening on stage that that was just like a weird
Mill that that that sometimes
Collapsed or and and drove everything is that so in that like like you just described like like was that an evolution?
Am I accurate? Uh, I think that gary. I think gary said he was had
Uh, the tonight show and he was hosting and there was some sort of problem with little richard
That little richard was mad about something and he was watching a producer trying to like calm down little richard
And I think that he realized like there's a there's a whole emotional world behind this show
Which has to do with you know, you have this ego maniacal
Uh host that everyone is trying to figure out what he wants
And there's a there's all these relationships between the the back
crew and that through the backstage of the talk show you could explore just the entire human
Condition and I think gary was fascinated by his own problems with wanting to be successful and famous and like he hated
his own
ego maniacal
tendencies and it really became a show
about
It was enough
It could have been a black box theater show that never that one of the sets you could have broken down the set of the talk show
Yeah, he kept using it, but it was like it was his office and it was the kitchenette
It was because it was like and it was it was just this crazy
Self-loathing like like weird spiraling
Portrait of this god the kind of guy that's good at this job
And there's nothing that will make him happy right, you know
He wants success at all costs
To the you know to the destruction of most of his relationships
And it's just never works till finally he's pushed off his own show by the younger guy
I'm just I'm yeah, I'm just here which was john steward if I get for you space kids
You little hologram kids. You don't know no larry sanders. You thought it was its Garry Shandling show. Oh, that's uh
It's uh streaming on each wheel also little richards was a black entertainer
It was an ironic name. He was a giant. Yeah, he was I'm certainly he was mad about lucille
Not doing his sister's wheel
But but I just what I'm curious about is do you recall a point in some season of that show
The way that I because I think about rick and morty. Thank you. Um
Um
You have daughters. I I I'm sure you're familiar. Uh, the the
Did that did that sound that maybe because his kids are daughters
We'll certainly fix that one every every everyone with kids is that that's my in now
I can be like like ilan musk has kids. So I've I've touched the fucking space man death. Stop it. Stop it
Stop touching stop touching children
I've got a ilan musk story. All right. Well, okay
I'm gonna tell it quick and interesting like weird
Okay, so I just want to know is there was can we go into a segment called ilan musk stories?
Yes, we can in a second in a second
The the the current segment is I want to hear this like if there's an if there's a point that you remember where
When you're doing larry sanders where this template that you decided on where you're like, you know
We had this whole idea of the show and was there a frustration or a breakdown or an epiphany where
Someone or some faction or some people said we don't even have to ever
See the talk show in order for this to be a good show. Yeah, I don't think that was the turn
I think the turn was in the first year or two. He had a wife
And and I think that gary was writing the wife. He wished he had so he had this like professional
The catherine harold's like smart woman and it was almost like what would a relationship look like if I was sainer
and and and it never played the way that
That it needed to because that wasn't the kind of person that gary dated in real life
And and so that we did have a conversation once about
larry should be single
Because I don't think this is truthful what you're trying to do with your wife
And there was also an x-life character and there were some good episodes and they were great
But as soon as you made him date, I think that was the moment where it became more about his
You know his personal life and how frustrated he was and and then it became more more truthful
I think yeah, I just when I think of that show
I remember who just this is like him walking into work and already
Shielding him from everybody and him just like in his baseball cap and just in that voice
I'm just like not being able to handle it and I can't handle it
Like I like I actually at Eclipse
I forgot that there was another part of that show that like did you ever remember the barney miller pilot?
If you watch the barney miller pilot, there was a lot of his wife
It was like you could tell the pitch was look cops have two lives
They got their work family
And they got their home family because it's like how lindon's putting on his and he like loves his wife
And then he goes to work with these this like crazy sweat hog group of like cops
I'm like the show became a one act play on one set of these crazy cops like how lindon never had a wife again
but um, it it's it's it's
It the weird connection there is that
The dick van dyke show always struggled with that too
Which was the first thing Garry Shandling brought up in the one encounter I ever had with him
Which was right before we lost him and I haven't been able to watch your
your documentary on him because I just I it's it's it's
I also haven't watched it land us and maybe it's for dumb reasons
Like maybe it's because like I don't want to watch jet after I'll be friends with Garry Shandling
But but I also I'd like to credit myself and think like actually it's kind of heartbreaking because as a kid because he was this meta guy
And and and I and sarah silverman bless her heart someone who was smart enough to recognize that I was
She couldn't work with me and yet still would invite me to her rooftop parties and you know, it's it's rare
Well, you mean rare rare for a person not rare for her not for her
But for a person to uh, she cast old like yeah, she's she's just embrace that she's nice
and and uh
And she knew she's like you want to meet Garry Shandling and it was like it would be the last it was the last
I was like, well, yeah, but I was like, you know, like dragging, you know, like it just just meet him
Gary, this is dianne harmon. You don't know him
And it's just like like putting me at a zoo and like like it doesn't matter how this turns out for him
And I say hi gary. I'm dianne harmon. I made a show called NBC game. You know, I've been recently fired from it
Oh, yeah, why why you get fired from it?
Uh, I think I mean I'd like to think is because it was uh, too too inside too meta. He's like, ah, geez
Are they still giving that no
And I was like I was like and then and then because I that's what I wanted to hear from him because his show time show
Not to admit it's like he was always the guy where the painting was part of the frame
But he also loves that you're being real with him
And and that you're you're showing him your pain
And that's why he wanted to talk to you because he really couldn't handle the bullshit, right?
But if you walked up and go like
I'm all fucked up right now. He's like, let's go. Let's let's get into it
Yeah, and he but and then he immediately went the rest was him talking about the dick van dyke show
Which I found so interesting because I never even realized
Dick van dyke show was meta. He worked on goddamn show. He worked on that show
No, no, no, he was saying like what is he fucking networks? Hey, like oh, it's uh inside baseball
It's about tv. So it's not tv fucking dick van dyke worked on my impression is fading
I turned into Camille. I can't tolerate
That was that was the best Kumail Nanjiani impression
But it was and it was so great because it was like like like wow, this is like the what like
Like he he'll never see my show, but I got to say
Uh, the network doesn't like it because they it's about it's about it's aware
And he said like my shit's all aware. I'm like, yeah, why the fuck do you think I wanted to meet you?
And then he's going dick van dyke was aware television is aware
It's supposed to be I got a little drunk. Sorry jet apatow. Well, that
But that you know when that's why I've been unable to watch your documentary because I
It's like it's like it I also if you did one about Harold Ramis
I also would not be able to watch that because that was a celebrity death that that buckled my name
Well, how do you think I felt having to like?
Watch hundreds of hours of gary just talking, you know as a friend. You probably loved it. You ghoul
Elon Musk story
Who's going first?
Let's start with Dan Dan. You got the first Elon
I I I don't know if he was trying to throw a party, but he throws terrible parties
Jet apatow you're up
Jet apatow Elon Musk story
Okay, before he had the car and he was just like a mystery scientist guy
Uh, I was at an oscar party and and I was talking to him. I didn't really like know the significance of
Let me just seem like a tall strange very smart man. And uh, and I'm a little drunk
and I don't know he was in whatever space he lives in and uh
Just the the regular space
And I was it's where his car is
And that's weird enough
You're not supposed to live in space. I was asking him what uh, you know what what he's working on and he said
I'm I'm trying to uh invent a rocket ship that will go to mars
And back and then I said to him
There's no way you'll figure that out before you're dead
That kind of reminds me of did you ever work with so I'm fucking Elon Musk one night
And I mean, I'm fucking him
Did you did you did you ever work with with with with sam simon
I never worked with sam simon although I love love loved him. There's a there's a story of that jiff
Like sam told jeff this story about himself meeting bill clinton, which is that oh, yes
That that he uh, you know sam sam and he like the simpsons and cheers and fad albert and fucking everything
Oh, yeah, he created everything. I didn't create me. He wrote on everything. Yeah, go ahead. Oh
I mean
Now you can tell it if you want
I said that like I don't know where what the context was but sam was meeting bill clinton and who was
currently the president like when he was meeting him and uh
Uh, and there was some fundraiser who knows what and then the president does his like whole line of things and he's shaking hands
Okay, see fucking god damn it
I I'm only gonna give you this it was a party that was at a house party in like belair bevelly hills
And someone said I think the president's coming by and everyone's like no, he's fucking not and then
And it wasn't sam's house. It was someone else. Yeah, it wasn't sam's house, but but then
Bill clinton shows up at a house party
There's so many people in this world that you can be at a belair party
And be sam's simon and it and and be and hear that the president's coming by and it's not your house
Like that's that's a lot of rich people
So now just take it from there because you'll have everything
So then the president comes by and he visits. I'm sure it's complicated when the president comes by
You could probably get shot for passing the mustard. I don't know they have to
And I didn't think god I took square dancing if I remember that situation
There's a whole line. I just all I remember of it. It just comes down to a dialogue couplet
It's like bill bill clinton being introduced to sam sam sam sam was the
Help create the simpsons of oh, I love the simpsons
Wait wait was camille there too
Oh, oh andy andy. I love the simpsons
Wait, are you barney fight for bill clinton? I do not have relations with mayberry
They're kind of in the same impression category me and James Adomian we
You learn to categorize things
fucking
So bill clinton goes I love the simpsons and then and then like somebody comes up
Like there's some kind of like like like like like a guy comes up and goes like
Mr. President, it's all right. You gotta you gotta go do the thing and then the other thing you gotta do is even more needing to be done than that
And uh, and it's just just a bunch of rigmarole and like like like oh
And and and bill clinton like uh, he's like, oh, all right. Oh, that's a lot of these people
And I guess I got
And and any what what's the what's the setup line? But let's let you guys
I
Can I just help
Just the setup line bill clinton's line. I know I know I know sam's punch line and he goes he goes, you know, is it
I'm so tired
There's nothing that happens in the white house that doesn't need my looking at and and I have to sign everything
I have to look and sign off and put a signature on everything
And and sam goes tell me about it
Sam flame is my favorite story is he would like season two of have we talked about this?
I don't know season two of simpsons where he goes to the playboy mansion. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's yeah
I think yeah, we yeah, we've told it. We've done 300 episodes. So
You have told it. Yeah
He sees he goes into the grotto sees a little blonde girl. I mean, why'd you ask?
I'm doing the fast version. Okay
He's he's never been invited to the playboy mansion. He sees a little young blonde girl getting fucked in the butt by a giant black
you know football player and
He's watching and like everyone's just taken it like it's no big deal
And so he lights up a cigarette and he's watching it and security runs in with the ear pieces in like the ear monitors
And they write and they go sir
You can't smoke in here
And then I'm sure I've told the story eight times on the show
Like 30 minutes later. He's outside the grotto the girl comes out naked rubbing her butt like kind of in pain
and she goes
What was the name of this club again?
And I asked Sam like what was her line reading like like because I want to call my friends up or fuck this place
like get me the phone and he goes
Her line reading was kind of like who needs this
So, uh, I like like like like now he's dead
Third act of this is like sort of like
I told you backstick because I was I was like
I did like like what what am I?
I'm a bad interviewer to you. What do you want to talk about? What do you want to talk about?
You're like, what do you want to talk about? I said, honestly, if I met you at a party
I I would start the conversation with the topic of when is when is it enough what like when is enough enough?
and and and what does that mean and and because it circles these areas of like
The fraud complex we've dealt with that's the road of trials
And I we don't need to be hooked up to a polygraph and I don't I can ask you a thousand times
Do you have a fraud complex and you can either say yes or no and we'll never really understand
Like like do you really like do you look in the mirror when you go home at night and go chud apatow?
Who are you kidding?
Uh, like we I had this conversation with my psychic yesterday
Honestly, I was talking to psychic. Would you psychic by psychic would you recommend them?
Uh, it's hard to know because I was
It's always hard because I got to see if the predictions work or not. So I know I need a little more time to
The psychic was good, but there was this psychic
We were talking to because we occasionally like a good psychic and uh, and this woman was just wrong about everything
But really confident, you know, you know, so she's like you're you're you're your wife or what?
Uh, well, we separately, but uh, the woman was it was like you you like the classic cars. You like the classic cars like
You know
You know your your your mom's not doing well. She's she's got the Alzheimer's and like no, she's dead already
Yeah, yeah, yeah, like but she also took big swings at like really terrible things happening
You know like she doesn't you were in Katrina
Yeah
Yeah, there's no way to even turn that into
What a storm you've you've seen your share of storms
But she did say to she was you're depressed, right, right? You thought about killing yourself, right?
For real swings for real. Oh, yeah
Which you that's a fucking it's like a home run hitter if there was a psychic movie equivalent of slap shot or happy gilmore
So they like fuck it like like there's a and there's a prude antagonist
Psychic centrist who's like you can't read fortunes like that
Hey, fuck it. You you you fucked Paul Bunyan. No, I didn't well
You're gonna whoo
It's in the way that she used
So was she was she caused that she was wrong on everything
Every single thing uh, she was wrong
Although I but I felt bad because I felt like she looked in my eyes and just thought like, you know
I think that those people mainly just look at you and if you're in a good mood
They kind of say things that support that and if you're in a bad mood
They're like you you're having a hard time, aren't you and like I gave off the terrible vibe
That she just thought my life was trouble. She couldn't know who you were. She didn't she wasn't a big apatow fan
But I think she she didn't like if she knew you she would have been more like a little on point. Well, she was english
She was english
She that was that she was like this this is 40 isn't uh, isn't on cable yet. They're like, no it is well not here
Have you been to the English did the English not not like dig your movies or what why in England do they dig them?
Uh, I don't know. I you know, I've gone places and it never seems to catch on in a big in a big way, you know
Well, you are pretty anti-british in your uh
You know, we've worked with the Russell brands and the English people and it doesn't seem to
Explode the whole thing. I only went to a psychic one time. I was on a road trip and I was like
Fun, you know go in the second. That's what everyone thinks. I no one thinks I'm severe. I'll go in a second
They went out, but I thought it would be an occult experience. I didn't know it'd be
Uh, it's like they they they she laid out some I think she did some tarot cards or maybe it was palm
History, I can't but but because what I remember is she was like well you're you want to do this
But you want to do that it was it was actually the opposite of what you're describing like no like tiny little weed wacker swings
That couldn't help but be accurate. It's like you're you're you're conflicted about something related to your life
Like you're good
It and it was like, you know and the part of you that
Went in paid money is like that's the smarter move because you actually are engaging in a self
Inventory that could be beneficial. It could be a form of therapy, but then at the end of it
It's like it just turned into like this is like, you know, and you know, you've turned your back on christ and he just needs to
And it's just everything got christian and I'm like wait, how do you know that's been our show? Yes. Thanks for coming
How do you know I'm not muslim and aren't you a witch?
How are you even on this team? What do you even when I was like 10 years old?
I got my palm read and the woman looks at my hands. She goes
When you're in your late 40s, you're gonna have an injury to your right ear. I'm like give me give me this
hand back
There's this there's no way there's that many lines
Just it's fucking impossible
Like we went to a psychic and the psychic implied like we were about to go on vacation Hawaii and she was like
I'm seeing. Uh, I don't know. I'm seeing some windy roads
Like she was probably we're gonna die on the vacation and so we went to Hawaii and like hid in the room for 10 days
Until you realize it's an island every road is supposed to be windy the dangerous roads would be straight
We got scared, but we proved her. I don't know if we proved her correct or not correct because we didn't die
Yeah, well, yeah, we also I think the same woman like I like two months later read my hand. He goes you're gonna live
Forever. Whoa. I'm like, whoa, but what about my fucking ear?
It's like you're sore or something you're gonna live forever, but you're gonna your brother's gonna take your ear
He's a giant ox. Yeah, also
So I've been told I'm gonna have three children. I think that ship has sailed
So like everything was a lie. No one's like nothing's ever been
Accurate about that. Are you what it's up? Let's respect our guests and give them a what a what time? Oh, look at that
See, I fucking nail. I'm so good at this show
All right, what are you plugging?
I thought we were I thought we were talking about when is enough enough. Oh, yeah, but look
Hey, Jen, can we talk about you being the host on chop jr. For the next year seasons?
Yeah, I know. Well, do you have fantasies of retirement? Do you have plans? Uh, well
This is dan asking about whether or not he's allowed to retire. Yeah
Do you do you think about in retiring? Like do you think uh, like why do you still do it?
because
It's it's always been for the money and I hate everyone and they've always hated me and I arrived alone
And I'm leaving likewise and and and they've been hurtful and they're gonna miss me when I'm gone
And I and and to prove it I just test drove a tesla yesterday on sunday
Dan, sorry. Did you have to cut you off for a second?
Hold your father. Dan, you're never gonna fucking retire because your your
Identity is based on your output. Like you you want to be
Liked and and to be in the mix like you what you're gonna fuck tell them Judd. Tell them
No, Dan, you tell me you really how much money have you made?
Well, I can am I allowed to count the
Money am I gonna make? Yeah, okay, like hundreds of millions
If you can't count it, but you haven't Judd
Judd, ten dollars. Are you like are you like Judd? What's his name Ryan Murphy? Are you uh, you have a Ryan Murphy deal?
I yes
Probably Judd, you and I have just met I I can guarantee you having known Dan for a long long long time
He's never going to retire because his identity is too built into the work
He you you want to create and you want people to like the things that you judge. Do you think based on your storyteller?
Uh, is this the character in the movie that is the good friend or the
Is this the drinking buddy that doesn't want you to get married or
did like
If you went off the air Dan if you went off the air and didn't have a tv show didn't have a movie coming out
Didn't have a podcast. I moved to Montana
Yeah, you'd be happy just moving to the hills and completely switching off
I wouldn't take it that extreme. I mean like Larry Sanders in that in that season like he's a very resonant thing
He has this fantasy. It's like I'm going to go to a cabin in Montana
It just becomes this mantra and then like the season ends with
like
Like there's the cabin. He's in Montana. It's just like it's quiet. He's like
But I wouldn't I don't I don't make the mistake of thinking that I don't love attention and that I don't need to feel
The admiration of strangers and all this stuff. Well, I I simply like I
I'm pretty confident that I mean it when I say
I would love to wake up one morning and ask myself the question. What do I want to do?
Because you're burdened. I have to there's too much to do
To get all the work done. Yeah, and I think I got not have a deadline not have a couple little dumb movies
Like the kind that that that got you your start and the kind that go Schrab, and I did channel 101
It was like these are the happiest times of our lives when we were in our 20s
And we made these like dumb things and yeah, you make them now you put them on instagram
And you just like 40 Nazis go stop talking about politics. I don't I don't but who cares about them
It's not for them. I just want to watch them burn
It's it's it's like it's like the fulfillment like I'll make a little song and I'll go like that feels nice
I think that's the expression on my dad's face when he works on stained glass
He's like my dad doesn't go. I can't stand not working on vhs duplication anymore
My dad doesn't have to be good or bad or lying or honest in order to be like I prefer working on stained glass
He's really bad at it. Like I hope my dad
He makes terrible stained glass. Is he a fan of the show? Should we not talk about that? I don't I don't think so
I think because I think in the 300 episodes of this show
I think even just as an aggregate we probably provided tutelage in making stained glass better than he's made
on accident
Okay. Well, all right
It's the reason you groaned is because the joke was poorly constructed
It's not because it was like a low blow
You're groaning because you're like all of that for that just to say your dad's shitty
Judd, how about you? Are you going to be the kind of person that wants to retire soon or work to you? They put you in the dirt
No, I just uh, sometimes I think the things that uh
Are smaller are less pressure and more fun. Like it was really uh enjoyable to
You know work on the documentary
I made a documentary about the avid brothers and about daniel strober and white gooden
And I find that I'm getting more and more joy out of the things I don't get paid for
Have you been able to find some place where you don't?
Like your what is your relationship with people's opinion of you?
Yeah, like like like like so because how do you because I'm only to the place where I can go
Oh, fuck them. That's the healthiest I can get. Yeah, but even the ones who like you
No, no, no not fuck them. No
A thousand camels for that for their children. I I I no I just mean like like it's it's it's like oh
Uh, that relationship can hurt me. Yeah, so fuck it
Yeah, but you you're about to tell me how to get a relationship where you're like, actually it's okay for them to say
Fuck you. Judd Apatow. You straight white fucking privileged pieces. Shit. It's never fucking, but I fuck you and you
Hacky bullshit. Oh, it's a would you're on every billboard because you're a piece of shit
Fuck you and like and that and that you're you're able to go like hey Judd you're allowed to leave whenever you are
Yeah, but like you you but you feel there's like there's like a debate on the work that's happening that there's some people love it
And there's some people who yeah
Engaging with you and attacking you for different
There's not even a debate on the work like, uh, maybe this is like like like it's like, oh the work's great
Is it ever going to make this guy a good person? Yeah, why do you think you're a bad person? I'm a bad person
Yeah, but why are you a bad person?
well, ironically, uh
A lot of it should happen. I just called you a bad person. I want that to go on record
I would like to think ironically it's because well, I had work to do
You had work to do and that made you a bad person. Yeah, I did what my work wasn't in the area of
Being a good person
That you were focusing on your own ego and your own success
And not helping anybody if somebody came up and said like hey, can you help me open this soda? I'd be like
uh
How is that going to make television good? Yeah
So they go we're eight and I'm like well, bitch you better fucking figure it out
Yeah, because I'm going to be controlling tv one day and you're going to be open in sodas. Yeah
And as you compound that for 40 years, but it's like is there a difference between our breed?
Are you are you and are you a you're a you're a you're a
More likable person, right? Like you're
Like I think this crowd likes you more than me. So you're wrong. They're self abusive
So yes, you're right. They do but they because they've they they conflate
Loathing with authenticity and so then they're like, I like them because he hates himself. That gives me a break from hating myself
It's terrible. We're all unhealthy. I see
That's true. But that's why we have guests like you to invite us upward and so I think we're all asking you
Do you have a secret? Can we escape this?
Well, I used to be I think I used to have a lot more of your energy
Early in my career because I remember I was working on the bedsteller show and they gave me all these terrible notes
And I said to the guy I said, uh, well, I'm not doing any of them. What happens now?
Yeah
And then we got cancelled
Uh, and I did this and you won an Emmy
And then I did the same thing on a freezer geek. So we got cancelled
I did the same thing on undeclared. We got cancelled and then I made this pilot with the great Dave Herman
you know from office space and king of the hill and he had a beard he played a pearl officer and
The the head of the network said, uh, I want you to reshoot
We were three days into shooting the pilot
I I want you to reshoot everything because I don't like the beard because only uh villains and pirates have beers
And so then the head of the production company came to me and said you can you do this?
Will you reshoot everything you've done?
But we have been like improvising for three days like you couldn't really
Recreate what had happened and he looked better with the beard as a kind of a grizzled guy
And I said I don't think I can do it
Like I don't think that it will be better without the beard and she said if you don't shave the beard
There's no chance this show will get picked up
I'm like really like she will hold that against me
Uh, like she begged me to make a show
But she will hold it against me and not pick it up only because of the beard. She said yes
And I'm like, well, I'm not shaving the beard and uh, and then they didn't pick up the show
So I have had Dan Harmon years
Like keep going. I was like wait
Was there a dead man's curve or you're like, I can't do it
There was there wasn't that man's curve
Which is I was working on the 40-year-old virgin and uh, I was like again
I was like three days in we had only shot two things we shot
He was like remember where there was like a bus that had all this like sexy signs on it
And he was just running away from this bus with with a perfume ad on the side
And um, so we shot that and then we shot this speed dating sequence
You know and the studio saw it and then someone from the studio
You know in the middle of the day called and said shut the movie down
And they said, you know, Steve looks like a serial killer
And Paul Rudd looks fat
And you're lighting it like an indie, but it also felt like they didn't really understand the the style
comedically of what we were doing
And that was usually the moment where I would like, you know burn everything down and and we wouldn't start up again
And for the first time in my career, I went, okay, I'm gonna listen
To everything they say because someone said to me when you
Would you tell people their notes are stupid
You're basically calling them stupid and then they make it their mission to destroy you
But that's their reaction. This is all in the masterclass by the way
And and uh, and so I said don't just don't do it just listen to the notes
Just don't maybe there's a way to do the notes and so she's like well he looks like a serial killer and I said well
He's wearing like a tan like Jeffrey Dahmer jacket all the time
And I said, well, we probably could make that maybe like a running gag that everyone tells him
He's looking like a serial killer. That's good. I like that and and then we did that and it became a big part of the story
Hang a lantern on it. We call that
Yeah
I mean don't address the note you make the note part of the script
I actually made up a comedy term that no one uses which is a certain joke is a turd in a slipper
A slipper a turd in a slipper which basically means like you like you put your foot in a
In a slipper with a turd in it and it's a joke that feels good, but it's not right
If this episode is not called turd in a slipper I quit
I
But then I couldn't I couldn't make Paul run skinnier because I wanted run to be to be fat
You know like I thought you know, he was always so cute and like clueless and I was always like
I like him like when he looks like he's falling apart and
And so I said i'm gonna make paul lose weight, but it was too late, you know, you wanted you wanted to poop in his slipper
And then uh, you know the lighting is the lighting and then I realized like oh, this didn't even make sense
Shutting us down like she could have just called and said hey keep an eye on these three things
That happens a lot where like an email will come in and it's like
Their choice to make it seem catastrophic and so their language is catastrophic and so you inherit that and then you go
Well, then defiance is the only I'm just beating that horse
But it's like that that is why it's worth like breathing and going
What's the note behind the note? How do you actually do this? Like let them be hysterical
And I go like actually this is this is as most notes is addressable
Yeah
And the way to be defiant is to prove that that serves your ego
It go like actually you guys think it's hard to make him not look like a serial killer
All you had to say is please
Yeah, and and you like you can retain your ego and you're but it's so hard because when they give you the notes
What you're thinking is
And it's because it's because that's linked to
The presupposition
That you didn't you don't know what you're doing. Yes. It has to be because if you really knew when you really have confidence, isn't your
It's like actually dumb shit saying like are you sure this should be a thing? Yeah
Like isn't it kind of like I was like do you want us to engage in the humiliating ritual of changing it for you?
Like you're kind of like you have that like power that Harry Potter scar in your head
I think for me it was I like for me the reason why I'm also that confident. It's no I'm not I
But but I just realized I don't know if maybe
Was that moment did that coincide with you?
A relationship that you're in your personal life a daughter born or a
A wife married that you're like I gotta stop making bridges out of firewood
Well, I you know, I had a I had a realization
Uh, which is okay anything something anytime something would happen like with the show or even a scene or anything going wrong
I would just lose my shit and my wife would always make fun of me and and just you know
Just be like oh nightmare on the set nightmare on the set like mock me
You know meltdown on the set. What will you do?
And and she just so laughed at me for the fact that I would go to 10 on things that weren't that important
And and I made a connection at one point. I was in this giant fight
I wanted to direct uh this the pilot that with Dave Herman. I couldn't get them to let me direct it
They they said no and I was just losing my shit and I realized that I was treating the head of the network
like my mother
And that I was uh looking to there were two heads of the network at fox
I think they were like my mom and dad getting divorced and that I had the energy
Of like a 14 year old
Fucking flipping out with them and I'm like this isn't what's happening
I have different energy than what's actually
Going wrong here and as soon as I realized I was treating the head of the network like my mother
I I made a choice to find people
Who understood what I do and that I wouldn't be in fights if I really spent more time going what executive gets
The joke right and ever since I've done that
It's all easier, but you have to if the really I remember met larry galebart and larry galebart wrote the movie
uh neighbors the one with john belushi and uh dan acrid and he said he went out to dinner with the director and
The director wasn't funny
But he didn't do anything about it. He was just like he wasn't funny and then like two weeks into shooting
He's like this is a disaster and he said he realized like at that moment. I got a pulpo plug on the whole thing
I have to make sure our neighbors
Yeah, these are the right people like if I don't if I don't have the right team around me
The whole thing is screwed and so that's what I tried to do is slow down and go who really understands me, but but
But an argument could be made that that that guy that melts down that that's what he's trying to do
He's he's trying to make the he's going this isn't right. You're not right. You don't get me this email
Is you being a person that can't work with me?
It so we have these stories where oh, okay, and then I rose and I breathed and I became a better collaborator
But then you just undercut it right there because it's like that's just as true too
It's like yeah, if you don't have chemistry, how are you ever going to make anything work?
Yeah, the the the you didn't know you were allowed to not cast
Your friends in the Ben Stiller show that's that's the Emmy winning sketch show like they laughed at me when I said
Let's let's have Seth Rogen
Be the lead of undeclared they literally started laughing
like it was so ridiculous and
But I think that at some point you realize like all this energy I put into my meltdown
It's not actually making anything better and it's making me sick
And is there any way to just not do it only because it's it's exhausting at some point to be in that place
Is there a part because like I I I'm not like a
An employer you got you guys have things that go on where you have
100 people that work, you know with you underneath you like and you're making you know
You could have fooled me with the way you're pushing this sports drink backstage
I don't know. I thought I was I
Just thought I'd invent some weird thing that Jeff has a sports drink company like
It didn't land
How is he famous jet? How is
Between you and me why is that even here?
I know but uh like
when you're
Like in a creative space and you have all these people underneath you that are reliant upon you
How much does that weigh into your like daily decision-making at all or not a bit?
Well, it depends on the project because sometimes, you know, you're working with people and you go
This is their big break
Like so if I fuck this up
Amy Schumer is screwed
She's not gonna get she's not gonna get another movie. I gotta do a good job
I'm gonna really hurt her long-term prospects and I think about it
But it's worse when I work with my kids because I just think I'm gonna make my children a laughing stock around the world
Also, there's wardrobe people the makeup department and all these like grips and carpenters and all this stuff
I was I was kind of happy about one aspect of the rosean thing
Which was that actually for the first time in mainstream media talking about the television industry
There was a big talking point that was 200 people lost their jobs
Yeah, and and and I'm not saying. Oh, that was a great talking point or as bad
It's like we'd never really talk about that and also it's not always true every day that sony came to a table read on community
Their theme was actually you're fucking 200 people over with your shitty late
Crazy Dungeons & Dragons scripts. That's why I kept saying to them
You know, you can always fire me and all these guys that saw wood and haul cable be as safe in your fucking loving arms as you want
It kind of like it sometimes that fraud complex goes. I'm actually I need to get out of here to save
people hauling cable, but do you think I know this sounds weird, but
Everyone in show business is in the circus
So if this isn't like people have been working at Ford for 25 years and the show goes down and they never get a job again
They all just jump on another fucking Hulu show
Yeah, I mean like it sucks, but you might have three or four bad months
That's if they're lucky, but I think that a lot of people is like
Like when somebody like when Kevin Spacey
gets Kevin Spacey and the house of house of cards just dies
There's some
Probably 150 people that said oh fuck. I just got hired like I thought I had a no it definitely sucks
I mean it definitely sucks. It's it's awful
But you know only shows are like eight episodes or 10 episodes and there's so much demand
For crews for shows that like the the biggest part of it
I mean you know who gets screwed is like certain actors or actresses they can only work on that show
You know there are certain people on rosanne. You go. This is where they're gonna score in this show
You know, I guess my question wasn't so much about the like the the grand picture of laury met calf being out of a job
It's it's the fact that like when you're writing an episode fighting with the network fighting with the studio
Having your own little like tug of war
How much do you think about the fact that you're
That you're in charge of a lot of people. Well, I only think about it in the sense that there's a big crew
And I and this sounds like bullshit, but I really think I you know
I'd like this all to work well for them so that they all feel respected
If anything goes gets weird they can come to me and it will be dealt with and that like we're like a happy
Family that's not a big burden on you as you're doing the creative. It's not hard to do. It's it's not hard
To be pleasant and right nice to the people who work for you like the people who who are a nightmare
It requires more energy. How much time like like how many
sets crews like shows have you been on where it was a fucking nightmare because like I've been very lucky
To work in comedy where everybody's nice. Yeah, and only maybe one or two times people were shitty
But that's like really rare like yeah, I haven't had a lot of those experiences
I think a director can be shitty and be yelling at the crew and yelling at the dolly grip
That they they miss the mark like you do see that like somebody who is so obsessed with doing a good job
They're mean to people around them, but I think everyone has bad days where they do that
Are you do you think you're good at cultivating like an environment of happiness and fun and grievous?
I'm the least fun person on the set
I'm not fun. I you know like like I don't know how you are like, you know when you're working on episodes and you're on set
I am so nervous that the day is not going well that my main thought is
I need to figure out a way to seem like I'm in an okay mood
For everyone around me because what's in my head is uh, so
But that's good. You like I find myself
I I get so easily fixated on what they're doing that and then I over time over a couple of seasons
I I objectively noticed because I love being in the edit bay and
uh, I
And I love being in the writer's room and then I would sometimes go to the set where they're shooting the things that you wrote in the writer's room
That you labor over and then that you're gonna have to edit and what I would notice is that me on the set
was like you you might as well throw a
Bucket of chicken bones in the air and
And adjust the set the way the chicken bones implied because because it was basically like it's like
Like yeah, sometimes the chicken bones are gonna be right sometimes raw. I was like like outside of like any but it's like
I'm not my instincts for
For actors and how to communicate with them like
Yeah, might as well roll the dice. Well, I agree with Ed to a point
I I
You know when the show's going well, you know, we're shooting crashing right now. We have great directors
I don't feel like when I sit on the set
Uh, it's essential
To what's happening and you know, I'm always thrilled when an episode comes in and it's
It's incredible and I can go I was not there for one second. Yeah, I felt that funny people like I had that
You know, and I was like
Judd's Judd's got his ass plopped in this director's chair. It's like we're burning money here. He could be off developing something
I got this
Uh, but but but yeah, I is that the only time you've worked at the Anish Kaminsky
Uh
Wait, I don't know what that's a cinematographer who did the funny people. Oh and Lincoln. Why are they always, uh,
Polish? Yeah
Well, I guess polish was it like they're always like some
They smoke cigarettes with their hand back
Like why are they always from some strange land?
He came to america and the he's the you know, he's one of the best ever and the first movie he did was uh, the vanilla ice movie cool as ice
That's how he started from my money holds up. Yeah. Yeah
Cool as ice is fucking like it's still it's still as true as it was the day it was made
Is there any way I hate I I hate this question
I always like like we've connected with you
You're at the you're at the top of the tornado, which means you're either gonna be flung off and be a cautionary tale of the velocity of a human body or
Or end up somewhere random
Like what part is the best part of the tornado to be in top?
Top center and then you like end up like it's like like Ripley's believe or not
Judd Apatow was in Kansas when this tornado sucked him up. He ended up sitting in hawaii happily married
As opposed to like, whoa fucking
Wow
Which is what the but but like so far so good. Yeah, you're doing all right. Yeah
You started like scrapping and wanting and you've been transparent about it. Like there's
190 people in here some of them are surely bad people some of them are good people
Uh, a lot of them
You guys are all good people
Is there is there is there any way to like like like like after all of these decades of you with these these roller coasters like
It's dumb. It's like that's what they always want. What's your advice to young people?
Well, what is it, you know
You know, what is the advice to young people?
It could take the form of like a more practical way of asking it because it might get a more sincere answer
Is what do you wish what do you wish you could poke your head through a doctor strange hole and say
What's your advice to Dan Harmon so he's not so freaked out right now?
No, what do you wish you could say to yourself pick an age? I mean if you want to pick 17
Well, I think you know the one thing that I got out of uh
being around gary was
Because I never thought about any of the things that he talked about before meeting him in terms of you right from a
Personal place you're trying to learn who you are through your creativity
You know, he was a guy who didn't uh
He wasn't really part of the system like he made these shows, but he didn't seem like he was uh
A part of show business, you know, like he just did his things on the side
And he was almost like an independent filmmaker in doing his tv shows and I think there's a lot to be said for
uh
caring that passionately about whatever you're doing and
Being willing to dig deep and then if you have something to say people might connect with it
You can't really succeed if you're just trying to be a cog in the machine
You're really trying to figure out what you want to express to other people and I you know
For me in a very simple way. I think I'm over and over just trying to say, you know
Don't be an asshole try to be nicer try to grow
Uh and that every movie is like a fucking idiot trying to be less of a fucking idiot, you know
And that's all it is and I'll I'll think I'm reinventing the wheel and I'll sit in a story meeting
And then by the end of the meeting we've kind of cracked the story and I'm like, yeah
It's just another version of that and that's what it is
Do you notice that in your work like there's a common theme that no matter how hard you try to get away from it
You're landing on it again
No
What are your themes do you have any judgment dealing with uh being brilliant, uh
Uh, no, I I think control is it's it's like it's like it's sort of like every episode of community in rick and moody
Like it's so easy for it to come around to oh, we're talking about control versus not control
And it always makes me feel like right. Are we doing this right or wrong?
Is every story about the human ambition for control or are we fucking up?
Are we just like going back to a golf swing that is basically like killing our shoulder?
Or like like are we supposed to be different than this? Are we supposed to be telling stories about fucking whoo?
What happened to you that you're obsessed with the idea of control?
This is a whole different show
Because I've never heard anyone talk about that as a theme, but I'm fascinated by how it works
Well, because I'm terrified of being a control freak. It's like like like more so than I it's it feels like I'm a control freak
I feel like control freaks worry about not having control and I find myself waking up every day and going
I'm I'm terrified. I'm gonna be a control freak. I see but we don't have come on
Everybody's a control freak. It's just like how you carry it. Like I'm sure there's no difference between how I'm controlling things
Now you're controlling things. It's just how we're acting around the office. Yes
Yes, and we that brings us to Twitter and this new age where it's like, oh, I'm like has any of this become cash-innable?
Like like
Is the common man
Or lady
You can be common
Are they are can I can I finish like can it can they say
You're all right. You did it
but
But not mean you did it like you made three branded content videos that want to Chloe
It's like you
You meaning like no because you did all that stuff
All right, you're not gross anymore. Like you're not like
Like I I touch your hand in square dancing
Like I like like I wouldn't it's not that's not saying I date you but I wouldn't like I wouldn't I wouldn't go to the cafeteria and
and and and say I can't believe I had
That getting a fied credit required touching that person. Yeah, can you can you?
Can you ever take the journey that would like can you undo that?
Can you be less gross by making shit?
That's interesting
I think you hate yourself in a different way than I hate myself
All right, that's no, I wasn't even I was just kidding
Uh
How much self-loving goes into being a great like show creator like like like
Do you do you feel like a little bit of self-loving is a part of what you make?
Jen
I you know, I think I got lucky
You know, you know, I see my career in two phases
Which is I had all these shows cancelled and I felt like they were good
And I had movies that didn't do well like cable guy and heavy weights that I liked
And I was like I think I'm out of sync with the world like the things that I like
I think they are good, but I don't think I guess I'm never going to
Transcend and like connect with the audience and then I you know was lucky enough to be Paul Fegan
We worked on freaks and geeks and then when that was over
I had a very visceral sense that something magical had happened like this is weird like this came out
Exactly the way we wanted to do it before the public
Reactive or was it it almost disconnected from the reaction of the audience?
It was just a personal feeling like I think for me
This is as good as I can do and I think it works perfectly the way we wanted it to
And as a result, I'm going to look at the rest of my career as like an aftermath
And so like, you know, it's almost like a trick on myself like I did it once
So I could take all that pressure off of myself and just try a bunch of shit
Because I really only wanted to prove to myself once that I knew what I was doing
And that everything else can be an experiment
So identify the top of your apatowr
No, that didn't work
Does that make any sense?
Uh the connection of apatowr and then the word door
A little too much
No, I did I Joel Hodgson came to an epiphany, you know Joel
Yes, yes like about mystery science theater like he had a love-hate relationship with it because of what it represented in his life
And so he kind of you you got lucky enough to
Sounds like you're in the edit band freaks and geeks and you're like, you know what if I think it's going to get better than this
Um, I I may be right. I may be wrong, but one thing's for certain
I have unreasonable expectations if I compare that's how I feel about rick and morty
Yeah, it's like I'm like I I community was fucking perfect. Therefore like I really like rick and morty. I'm like
if you ever
expect to be this
happy about something you've made like
Like you're dumb
And that doesn't mean you're not going to and it doesn't mean you you are it's but it's like it's it's that it is that atoning with like
Good enough is good enough. Yeah
Um, or just not even good enough just I'm giving myself to it
I'm being as creative as I can be and I have the courage to
Put that out there and we'll see what it is. Like I'm not holding back
I'm not trying to obsess on how people are going to feel about it
It's a pure expression because you're not you're not letting yourself be defined. Hi. Sorry. That happens a lot
I'm hidden
But you find yourself like you're you're taking the pressure off yourself and you're not letting yourself be defined by your work
So in that sense, it's not about your ego. It's really just about focusing on the thing that you're doing
Can you get to that place right and then but there's always that other party that's like I'm gross
You know, you're aware that we carry with us trying to let the dominant thing be
I'm going to try to be in flow on whatever this creative expression is and put it out there and whatever whatever
Yeah, I mean it's not it's not fair to people to to like it's like a writer and a contract with the audience inside
Okay. Oh, do you like that show mighty mouse? Yeah, it's great
Uh, hey, did you know the guy that created it wants you to think that he's a good person?
Well, I don't know like I don't know
I'm not prepared to have that conversation
Um, I'm what I'm very prepared to tell you is that I enjoyed mighty mouse episode three yesterday
And may change my mind tomorrow and have a full fucking right to
Yeah, it's like that's the I think that lesson I just learned tonight and it was embarrassing
Yeah, but that's like the fuel like your fuel to do the work sometimes is
I'm gross. Are we boring you? He just yawned
Oh, yeah, that's all right. No, but that's like your fuel
Like you can't do the work unless you have some like insane wound
You're trying to like overcompensate for and so the real question is at a certain age
Could you go I can find a different fuel than this weird insecurity self-agent and do it from a different place
Yeah, yeah, I mean the metaphors there would be it could include like aerospace where it's like it takes a different form of propulsion to get
Like, you know to certain places and that's like things need to detach and take over or you're a bad rocket
Like if you're flying on fucking diesel to the moon
Um, how does how does dan get as mellow as you?
Wait, how how what could what could he learn from you how to be well your worst nightmare needs to become a reality
for that to happen
Because every seat's filled in here because of my mania
Go ahead. You can tell him go ahead. Tell him
What would it take to make me I'm just saying calm the fuck down motherfucker
I'm not the one I've been I've been like they haven't we done too much show like
I thought I was the work do you think you're in uh, pre crazy prime crazy or post crazy
It's just like right at the tip of the apatow are like I'm I'm
Like I I feel like I I'm like I'm like right at the place which isn't it's like
My therapist said to me she goes because she goes I describe a host of Georgia 70 episodes, whatever
I I I walked her through the merch. I said I mentioned three times in my gq article
um
And she and she goes so
Next is happiness, huh?
And and and and I go yeah for sure pretty cool, right and she's like
Huh
No, this will be interesting. This will be interesting
And and and I'm like what's that about and she goes no no no
I just I'm saying it's going to be interesting because you're an archetype
And uh about half of you
That's true you now you become happy and now you just actually just grow to your
Randomly a lot at age and you just die with a smile on your face or or or with a look of shock because maybe it's a bus
But but but the other half to the point where you could flip a coin and she's like very convincing
I don't know. Maybe she's bullshitting with this stuff, but she's like she makes it sound like science
She's like the archetype you are in this situation. You're in the
half of you
Uh now you die
Now you put on slippers as she said and you drink yourself to death
Because you don't know how to process happiness
And I was like all right
I and she's like yeah, it's gonna be gonna be gonna be interesting
What is your job?
cliffhanger
Slippers full of poop. Thank you so much. Hey worth theater
The uh dynasty typewriter. Can we give it up for Judd Apatow? Judd Apatow. Thank you Judd
Spencer Crittenden
And there's always church chris sarah levy brian you song
No, and everybody
Also, all of you are coming out and seeing us live here in downtown
In the red capital of los angeles california. We love you drive fast take chances
It's Zac McKeever put some beats on
Did you get any of that it's a good show